<chapter id="faq">
<title>FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions)</title>

<qandaset defaultlabel='qanda'>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
How can I get the File Version from PE files like I'm used to do with previous versions of pev?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Use peres tool -v swtich.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
Can my machine be infected when analyzing malware with pev tools?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Yes. We have cpload tool that actually EXECUTES the target on Windows machines.
Apart from that, attackers could exploit a vulnerability we don't know about
in one of the tools to execute arbitrary code by sending you a specially crafted PE file.
So please, consider using pev tools in a protected/isolated virtual machine for binary file analysis.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
Can any pev tool rate a file as malicious?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
No. Some tools can give you a hint but it's nearly impossible to programatically
claim a piece of code is malicious.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
I can't compile pev from the latest source code on git repository. What can I do?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
You can open an issue on GitHub. The repository usually has under development code and
sometimes things are, indeed, broken.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
How do I uninstall the pev version I've installed from source code?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
On Linux and OS X, just point to the pev source code directory and run
<emphasis>make uninstall</emphasis>. On Windows, just delete the pev folder.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
Can I use pev with my project?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Yes, as long as you respect GPLv2 terms for pev tools and LGPLv3 terms for libpe.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
I like pev. How do I let you guys know that?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
We're glad you like it. Please, consider star it on GitHub or SourceForge
(you can also make a comment), send your feedback to the pev-users list, tell your
friends that pev exists, anything. We look forward to hear from you. Really.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
I found a bug. What do I do?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
If you suspect it is a bug we recommend you to first discuss that in the
pev-users mailing list. If you are sure, please open an issue on GitHub project page.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
My question is not listed here. How do I get an answer for that?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Send it over to pev-users mailing list or, if you're a developer, send it to pev-devel mailing list.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>

</chapter>
