<chapter id="pev">
<title>What is pev?</title>

<para>
Since version 0.50, pev is a multiplatform toolkit to work with PE (Portable
Executable) binaries. Its main goal is to provide feature-rich tool for proper
analyze binaries, specially suspicious ones.</para>

<sect1 id="history">
<title>History</title>

<para>
pev was born back in 2010 from a simple need: a program to find out the version (File Version) of
a PE32 file and that could run in Linux. This version number is stored in
Resources (.rsrc) section but at the time we've decided to simply search for
the string in the whole binary, without any optimization.
</para>

<para>
Later on we've decided to parse the PE32 file until reach .rsrc section and
get the File Version field. In order to do that, we realized we had to parse the
entire file and we thought if we could print out all the fields and values we went
through as well.
</para>

<para>
Until version 0.40, pev was a unique program to parse the PE headers and sections
(now readpe is responsible for this). In version 0.50 we focused on binary analysis
and split pev into various programs beyond a library, called libpe. Currently
most of pev toolkit programs depends on libpe.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="changelog">
<title>Changelog</title>
<screen>
pev - the PE file analysis toolkit - ChangeLog

Legend:
+ Added feature
* Improved/changed feature
- Bug fixed
! Known issue / missing feature

pev 0.81 - January 7, 2017

 + peldd: new tool to display what DLL's a PE file depends on.

pev 0.80 - January 7, 2017
 ! Missing documentation for libpe.
 ! peres does not reconstruct icons and cursors extracted from resources section.
 * Now the -V switch is used by all pev programs to show their version number.
 * pehash: Now the hash of the whole file is shown by default (-c option).
 * pestr: --net option removed.
 * udis86 upgraded to version 1.7.2.
 + Basic plugins support.
 + cpload: new tool for CPL file debugging (Windows only).
 + pehash: Import Hash (imphash) support.
 + peres: -v swtich outputs PE File Version from resources section.
 + Support for pev.conf configuration file.
 - pestr: unable to handle big strings.
 - readpe can now read virtual import descriptors.
 - Valid XML and HTML output formats (Jan Seidl).
 - readpe: Unecessary error message when there is no export directory.

pev 0.70 - December 26, 2013
 ! Missing full/English documentation.
 ! Missing valid XML and HTML output formats.
 ! pestr: no support for --net option when parsing unicode strings.
 ! pestr: unable to handle too big strings.
 * libpe: rewritten, now using mmap. (Jardel Weyrich).
 * pestr: added countries domains suffixes.
 * readpe and peres: output enhancements (Jardel Weyrich).
 + pehash: sections and headers hash calculation (Jardel Weyrich).
 + pehash: ssdeep fuzzy hash calculation.
 + pehash: support for new digest hashes like sha512, ripemd160 and more.
 + peres: added new tool to analyze/extract PE resources (Marcelo Fleury).
 + pescan: cpl malware detection.
 + pescan: undocumented anti-disassembly fpu trick detection.
 + pesec: show and extract certificates from digitally signed binaries (Jardel Weyrich).
 - readpe can't show functions exported by ID only.
 - readpe: fixed subsystem types (Dmitry Mostovenko).

pev 0.60 - October 31, 2012
 ! Missing full/English documentation.
 ! Missing valid XML and HTML output formats.
 ! pestr: no support for --net option with unicode strings.
 ! readpe can't show functions exported by ID only.
 * pedis: -F/--function option replaced by -r/--rva.
 + added manpages for all tools.
 + pedis: added -m/--mode option to set disassembly mode (16, 32 or 64-bit).
 + pedis: added -n option to limit number of disassembled instructions.
 + pedis: added options to disassembly entrypoint and raw fille offset.
 + pedis: disassemble bytes number specified by -n option.
 + pehash: new tool to calculate PE file hashes (Jan Seidl).
 + pepack: added PEiD signature search (Rodrigo Escobar).
 + pescan: added -f/--format option to format output.
 + pescan: added section, imagebase and timestamp analysis.
 + readpe: added --exports option to show exported functions.
 - pedis: fixed address representation in calls and jump instructions.

pev 0.50 - June 25, 2012
 ! Missing documentation.
 ! Missing valid XML and HTML output formats.
 ! pedis shows arguments of jumps and calls as relative positions.
 * Improved pev tools Makefile (Gabriel Barbosa).
 * MEW packer detection in packid (Rodrigo Rubira).
 * pev now is a collection of binaries and a library to work with PE executables.
 + libpe: xmalloc trick and fixes (Rodrigo Rubira).
 + Output in monospaced text and csv in most programs.
 + pedis: disassemble functions and sections (Tiago Zaniquelli).
 + pepack: detect fake EP (Wagner Barongello).
 + pescan: new tool to search for suspicious things in PE files including TLS callbacks.
 + pesec: find security features in PE files.
 + readpe can now show imported functions with --imports or -i switch.
 + readpe: show PE headers and sections information (most of obsolete pev binary).
 + Released libpe 1.0 to support our programs.
 + rva2ofs and ofs2rva: convert from rva to raw file offset and vice-versa.
 - Fixed erroneous ord numbers in functions imported without name.
 - Fixed two bugs with fake TLS callbacks in petls (thanks to Qualys guys for reporting).

pev 0.40 - August 7, 2011
 * Compatible with PE/COFF specification v8.2.
 * Date format in COFF header similar to RFC 2822.
 * Improved function to get machine type (Gabriel Duarte).
 + Added "-r" option to show resource items at first level.
 + Added more human-readable fields, like subsystem and section characteristics.
 + Added TLS callback functions detection in every PE section.
 + ASLR and DEP identification.
 + PE32+ support. Now pev can handle 64-bits executables.
 + Variable data directories support (no more fixed in 16).

pev 0.31 - May 11, 2011
 + Added characteristics flags in COFF output.
 + Added human-readable machine types in COFF output.
 - Fixed compilation in OS X. (Gustavo Roberto).
 - Fixed warning with Linux 32-bits boxes when compiling.

pev 0.30 - February 20, 2011
 * Improved memory usage.
 * Now pev shows the Product Version with option "-p".
 + Added option "-a" to show all information.
 + Added option "-c" to show the COFF header.
 + Added option "-d" to show the DOS header.
 + Added option "-o" to show the Option (PE) header.
 + Added option "-s" to show executable sections.
 
pev 0.22 - January 9, 2011
 ! Does not support PE32+ files.
 ! Plans to read more PE information.
 * Improved Makefile.
 + Added manpage.

pev 0.2 - December 26, 2011
 * Improved search algorithm.
 - Fixed bug compiling in MS-Windows platform.

pev 0.1 - December 12, 2010
   Initial release. (Eduardo Fernandes, Fernando Mercês, Francivan Bezerra and Thiago Moraes).
</screen>
</sect1>

</chapter>
