.TH PEDIS 1
.SH NAME
pedis - disassemble PE sections and functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pedis
[OPTIONS]...
.IR pefile

.SH DESCRIPTION
pedis is a PE disassembler relyng on udis86 library. It can disassembly entire sections, functions or any file position you want.
It's part of pev, the PE file analysis toolkit.
.PP
\&\fIpefile\fR is a PE32/PE32+ executable or dynamic linked library file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-att
Set AT&T assembly syntax (default: Intel).

.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-entrypoint
Disassemble the entire entrypoint function.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format\ <text|csv|xml|html>
Change output format (default: text).

.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-mode\ <16|32|64>
Disassembly mode (default: auto).

.TP
.BR \-i\ <number>
Number of instructions to disassemble.

.TP
.BR \-n\ <number>
Number of bytes to disassemble.

.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-offset\ <offset>
Disassemble at specified offset, either in decimal or hexadecimal format (prefixed with 0x).

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rva\ <rva>
Disassemble at specified RVA, either in decimal or hexadecimal format (prefixed with 0x).

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-section\ <name>
Disassemble en entire section given.

.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version.

.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show this help.

.SH EXAMPLES
Disassemble RVA 0x4c4df from \fBputty.exe\fP:
.IP
$ pedis -r 0x4c4df putty.exe

.PP
Disassembly the entrypoint of a 64-bit PE32+ \fBwordpad.exe\fP:
.IP
$ pedis -m 64 --entrypoint putty.exe

.PP
Disassembly in 16-bits mode, starting from offset 0x40, 32 bytes of code from \fBgame.exe\fP:
.IP
$ pedis -m 16 -o 0x40 -n 32 game.exe

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please, check the latest development code and report at https://github.com/merces/pev/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBofs2rva\fP(1), \fBpehash\fP(1), \fBpeldd\fP(1), \fBpepack\fP(1), \fBperes\fP(1), \fBpescan\fP(1), \fBpesec\fP(1), \fBpestr\fP(1), \fBreadpe\fP(1), \fBrva2ofs\fP(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2020 pev authors. License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
