.TH PEHASH 1
.SH NAME
pehash - calculate hashes of PE pieces

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pehash
[OPTIONS]...
.IR pefile

.SH DESCRIPTION
pehash uses libssl, libfuzzy and other black magic to calculate PE file hashes. It's part of pev, the PE file analysis toolkit.
.PP
\&\fIpefile\fR is a PE32/PE32+ executable or dynamic linked library file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Hash file, sections and headers with md5, sha1, sha256, ssdeep and imphash.

.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-content
Hash only the file content (default).

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format\ <text|csv|xml|html>
Change output format (default is text).

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-header\ <dos|coff|optional>
Hash only the header with the specified name.

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-section\ <section_name>
Hash only the section with the specified name.

.TP
.BR \-\-section-\index\ <section_index>
Hash only the section at the specified index (1..n).

.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version.

.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show this help.

.SH EXAMPLES
Check all supported checksums of \fBputty.exe\fP file:
.IP
$ pehash -a putty.exe

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please, check the latest development code and report at https://github.com/merces/pev/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBofs2rva\fP(1), \fBpedis\fP(1), \fBpeldd\fP(1), \fBpepack\fP(1), \fBperes\fP(1), \fBpescan\fP(1), \fBpesec\fP(1), \fBpestr\fP(1), \fBreadpe\fP(1), \fBrva2ofs\fP(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2020 pev authors. License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
