.TH READPE 1
.SH NAME
readpe - displays information about PE files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readpe
[OPTIONS]...
.IR pefile

.SH DESCRIPTION
readpe can read and display all PE file headers, fields and values. It's part of pev, the PE file analysis toolkit.
.PP
\&\fIpefile\fR is a PE32/PE32+ executable or dynamic linked library file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-all
Full output (default).

.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-all-headers
Show all PE headers.

.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-all-sections
Show PE section headers.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format\ <text|csv|xml|html>
Change output format (default: text).

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dirs
Show data directories.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-header\ <dos|coff|optional>
Show specific header. It can be used multiple times.

.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-imports
Show imported functions.

.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-exports
Show exported functions.

.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version.

.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show this help.

.SH EXAMPLES
Display the Optional file header of \fBputty.exe\fP:
.IP
$ readpe \-h optional putty.exe

.PP
Display data directories and exported functions of \fBcards.dll\fP:
.IP
$ readpe \-de cards.dll

.PP
Display all possible information about \fBsvchost.exe\fP file:
.IP
$ readpe svchost.exe

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please, check the latest development code and report at https://github.com/merces/pev/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBofs2rva\fP(1), \fBpedis\fP(1), \fBpehash\fP(1), \fBpeldd\fP(1), \fBpepack\fP(1), \fBperes\fP(1), \fBpescan\fP(1), \fBpesec\fP(1), \fBpestr\fP(1), \fBrva2ofs\fP(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2020 pev authors. License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
